# B2RL - Building Batch Reinforcement Learning Dataset

Batch reinforcement learning (BRL) is an emerging field in the reinforcement learning community. It learns exclusively from static
datasets (i.e. replay buffers). Model-free BRL models are capable of
learning the optimal policy without the need for accurate environment models or simulation environments as oracles. Model-based
BRL methods learn the environment dynamic models from the
buffers, then use these models to predict environment responses,
and generate Markov Decision Process (MDP) transitions given states and actions
from policies. In the offline settings, existing replay experiences
are used as prior knowledge for BRL models to learn from. Thus,
generating replay buffers are crucial for BRL model benchmark. In
our B2RL (<ins>B</ins>uilding <ins>B</ins>atch <ins>RL</ins>) dataset, we collect real-world datasets
from our database, as well buffers generated by several behavioral
policies in simulation environments. To the best of our knowledge,
we are the first to open-source building datasets for the purpose of
batch RL learning.

---
## Real buliding buffer

The real building buffer is extracted from the readings of student labs in one the school 
buildings. The amount of datapoints in the buffers ranges from  170~260K, depends on the
number of rooms involved and missing values. We obtain data of an entire year, from the
beginning of July 2017 to the end of June 2018 of 15 rooms across 3 floors. Since the
rooms on the same side of a floor often share similar thermal dynamics, we thus create
batch data for each floor to ensure that the replay buffer reflects each variable air
volume (VAV)’s thermal dynamics precisely.

- *State*: We use the following attributes for the RL process to evaluate 
the policy: indoor air temperature, actual supply airflow, outside air 
temperature, and humidity. These states include the features needed for 
thermal comfort estimation and those that represent the 
responses of actions as RL states.

- *Action*: We control two important parameters, namely, zone air temperature 
setpoint and actual supply airflow setpoint. 
Both are in continuous space and the action spaces are normalized in the range of $[-1,1]$.

- *Reward*: We monitor the thermal states of the space as well as the thermal comfort 
index predicted by a regression model, and then make control decisions with the actions 
selected by the BRL model. Our reward function penalizes high HVAC energy use and 
discourages a large absolute value of the thermal comfort index, which indicates 
discomfort to occupants.

---
## Simulated buliding buffer

We adopt Sinergym, an open-source simulation and control framework for training RL 
agents. It is compatible with EnergyPlus models using Python APIs.
    Our approach follows BRL paradigm: (1) We first train behavioral RL agents with
500K timesteps and select the one which gives the highest average score as the expert
agent. 
    We run on 5-zone building which is a single floor building divided in 5 zones, 1
interior and 4 exterior with 3 weather types: cool, hot, and mixed in continuous
settings. We also experiment on two different kinds of response type, deterministic and
stochastic.
Then generate expert buffer with $500K$ transitions as the expert buffer. (2) A medium 
buffer is generated when the behavioral agent is trained "halfway", which means the 
evaluation score reaches the half of the expert agents' scores. (3) Randomly 
initialized agent which samples action from allowed action spaces with uniform 
probability during the evaluation stage to generate buffers (350,400 transitions). 

- *State*: Site outdoor air drybulb temperature, site outdoor air relative humidity,
                    site wind speed, site wind direction, site diffuse solar radiation rate per area,
                    site direct solar radiation rate per area, zone thermostat heating setpoint
                    temperature, zone thermostat cooling setpoint temperature, zone air temperature,
                    zone thermal comfort mean radiant temperature, zone air relative humidity,
                    zone thermal comfort clothing value, zone thermal comfort Fanger model PPD,
                    zone people occupant count, people air temperature, facility total hvac electricity
                    demand rate, current day, current month, and current hour.
- *Action*: Heating setpoint and cooling setpoint in continuous settings.
- *Reward*: We follow the default linear reward settings, it considers the energy consumption and the absolute difference to temperature comfort. 
